Paul, and Silvanus, and Timothy, to the church of the Thessalonians which is in God the Father, and in the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace be to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers;
Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, and labor of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God and our Father;
Knowing, brethren beloved by God, your election.
For our gospel came not to you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Spirit, and in much assurance; as ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake.
And ye became followers of us, and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Spirit:
So that ye were examples to all that believe, in Macedonia and Achaia.
For from you sounded out the word of the Lord not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith toward God is spread abroad; so that we need not to speak any thing.
For they themselves show of us what manner of entrance we had to you, and how ye turned to God from idols, to serve the living and true God;
And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, who delivered us from the wrath to come.
For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance to you, that it was not in vain:
But even after we had suffered before, and were shamefully treated, as ye know, at Phillippi, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God with much contention.
For our exhortation was not from deceit, nor from impurity, nor in guile;
But as we were allowed by God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, who trieth our hearts.
For neither at any time used we flattering words, as ye know, nor a cloke of covetousness; God is witness:
Nor from men sought we glory, neither from you, nor yet from others, when we might have been burdensome, as the apostles of Christ.
But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her children:
So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted to you, not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls, because ye were dear to us.
For ye remember, brethren, our labor and toil: for laboring night and day, because we would not be chargeable to any of you, we preached to you the gospel of God.
Ye are witnesses, and God also, how holily, and justly, and unblamably we behaved ourselves among you that believe:
As ye know how we exhorted, and comforted, and charged every one of you, as a father doth his children,
That ye would walk worthy of God, who hath called you into his kingdom and glory.
For this cause also we thank God without ceasing, because, when ye received the word of God which ye heard from us, ye received it not as the word of men, but (as it is in truth) the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe.
For ye, brethren, became followers of the churches of God which in Judea are in Christ Jesus: for ye also have suffered like things from your own countrymen, even as they have from the Jews:
Who both killed the Lord Jesus, and their own prophets, and have persecuted us; and they please not God, and are contrary to all men:
Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved, to fill up their sins always: for the wrath is come upon them to the uttermost.
But we, brethren, being taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavored the more abundantly to see your face with great desire.
Wherefore we would have come to you, even I Paul, once and again; but Satan hindered us.
For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?
For ye are our glory and joy.
Wherefore, when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good to be left at Athens alone;
And sent Timothy, our brother, and minister of God, and our fellow-laborer in the gospel of Christ, to establish you, and to comfort you concerning your faith:
That no man should be moved by these afflictions: for yourselves know that we are appointed to it.
For verily, when we were with you, we told you before that we should suffer tribulation; even as it came to pass, and ye know.
For this cause, when I could no longer forbear, I sent to know your faith, lest by some means the tempter may have tempted you, and our labor be in vain.
But now when Timothy came from you to us, and brought us good tidings of your faith and charity, and that ye have good remembrance of us always, desiring greatly to see us, as we also to see you:
Therefore, brethren, by your faith we were comforted over you in all our affliction and distress:
For now we live, if ye stand fast in the Lord.
For what thanks can we render to God again for you, for all the joy with which we rejoice for your sakes before our God;
Night and day praying exceedingly that we may see your face, and may perfect that which is lacking in your faith?
Now God himself and our Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way to you.
And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one towards another, and towards all men, even as we do towards you:
To the end he may establish your hearts unblamable in holiness before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints.
Furthermore then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as ye have received from us how ye ought to walk and to please God, so ye would abound more and more.
For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus.
For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from lewdness.
That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor;
Not in the lust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles who know not God:
That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter: because the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified.
For God hath not called us to uncleanness, but to holiness.
He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but God, who hath also given to us his holy Spirit.
But concerning brotherly love ye need not that I write to you: for ye yourselves are taught by God to love one another.
And indeed ye do it towards all the brethren who are in all Macedonia: but we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more;
And that ye study to be quiet, and to do your own business, and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you;
That ye may walk honestly towards them that are without, and that ye may have need of nothing.
But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them who are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others who have no hope.
For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also who sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.
For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain to the coming of the Lord shall not precede them who are asleep.
For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first:
Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.
Wherefore, comfort one another with these words.
But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write to you.
For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night.
For when they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape.
But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief.
Ye are all children of light, and children of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness.
Therefore let us not sleep, as do others; but let us watch and be sober.
For they that sleep, sleep in the night; and they that are drunken, are drunken in the night.
But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breast-plate of faith and love; and for a helmet, the hope of salvation.
For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ,
Who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him.
Wherefore, comfort yourselves together, and edify one another, even as also ye do.
And we beseech you, brethren, to know them who labor among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you;
And to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. And be at peace among yourselves.
Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are disorderly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient towards all men.
See that none render evil for evil to any man; but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves, and to all men.
Rejoice evermore.
Pray without ceasing.
In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.
Quench not the spirit.
Despise not prophesyings.
Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.
Abstain from all appearance of evil.
And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body may be preserved blameless to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it.
Brethren, pray for us.
Greet all the brethren with a holy kiss.
I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read to all the holy brethren.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.