Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus,
To Timothy, my dearly beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day;
Greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy;
When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also.
For which cause I put thee in remembrance, that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the imposition of my hands.
For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.
Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God;
Who hath saved us, and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the world began;
But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel:
To which I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.
For which cause I also suffer these things: nevertheless I am not ashamed: for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed to him against that day.
Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast heard from me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
That good thing which was committed to thee keep by the Holy Spirit which dwelleth in us.
This thou knowest, that all they who are in Asia are turned away from me; of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
The Lord give mercy to the house of Onesiphorus; for he often refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain:
But, when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently, and found me.
The Lord grant to him that he may find mercy from the Lord in that day: and in how many things he ministered to me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.
Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
And the things that thou hast heard from me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also.
Thou therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life; that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier.
And if a man also striveth for masteries, yet is he not crowned, except he striveth lawfully.
The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits.
Consider what I say; and the Lord give thee understanding in all things.
Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel:
In which I suffer trouble, as an evil-doer, even to bonds; but the word of God is not bound.
Therefore I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
It is a faithful saying: For if we are dead with him, we shall also live with him:
If we suffer, we shall also reign with him: if we deny him, he also will deny us:
If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful: he cannot deny himself.
Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them before the Lord that they contend not about words to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers.
Study to show thyself approved to God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.
But shun profane and vain babblings: for they will increase to more ungodliness.
And their word will eat as doth a canker: of whom is Hymeneus and Philetus;
Who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already; and overthrow the faith of some.
Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth firm, having this seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his. And, Let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity.
But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth; and some to honor, and some to dishonor.
If a man therefore will cleanse himself from these, he will be a vessel to honor, sanctified and meet for the master's use, and prepared to every good work.
Flee also youthful lusts: but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
But foolish and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they gender contentions.
And the servant of the Lord must not contend; but be gentle to all men, apt to teach, patient,
In meekness instructing those that oppose themselves; if God perhaps will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth:
And that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will.
This know also, that in the last days perilous times will come.
For men will be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
Without natural affection, truce-breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good,
Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God;
Having a form of godliness, but denying its power: from such turn away.
For of this sort are they who creep into houses, and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with divers lusts;
Ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.
Now as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth: men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the faith.
But they shall proceed no further: for their folly will be manifest to all men, as theirs also was.
But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience,
Persecutions, afflictions which came to me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra; what persecutions I endured: but out of them all the Lord delivered me.
And all indeed that will live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution.
But evil men and seducers will become worse and worse, deceiving, and being deceived.
But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing from whom thou hast learned them;
And that from a child thou hast known the sacred scriptures, which are able to make thee wise to salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.
All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness:
That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished to all good works.
I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom;
Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine.
For the time will come, when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts will they multiply to themselves teachers, having itching ears;
And they will turn away their ears from the truth, and will be turned to fables.
But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry.
For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand.
I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith:
Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will give me at that day: and not to me only, but to all them also that love his appearing.
Do thy diligence to come shortly to me:
For Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world, and hath departed to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia.
Luke only is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee: for he is profitable to me for the ministry.
And Tychicus have I sent to Ephesus.
The cloke that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou comest, bring with thee, and the books, but especially the parchments.
Alexander the copper-smith did me much evil: the Lord reward him according to his works:
Of whom be thou aware also; for he hath greatly withstood our words.
At my first answer no man stood with me, but all men forsook me: I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge.
Notwithstanding, the Lord stood with me, and strengthened me; that by me the preaching might be fully known, and that all the Gentiles might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.
And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me to his heavenly kingdom; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.
Erastus abode at Corinth: but Trophimus I have left at Miletum sick.
Do thy diligence to come before winter. Eubulus greeteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.
The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you. Amen.